MALE SPEAKER:
Polycast 43, take one.
ROB DODSON: Hey there,
Polycasters, Rob here.
Welcome back to the show.
Last week we were
doing this thing called
"Ask Polymer," where we
take questions from you,
and then we try to answer them
here on the YouTube channel.
And as we were collecting
those questions,
I noticed a lot of
folks were asking,
when's the Polymer team
going to create a data table?
Or, what is the road map
for this particular element
and stuff like that?
And as we were going
through that process,
I really started to think that
if web components are going
to be successful, we're
going to have to scale
beyond the Polymer team.
Really, it's going
to be up to all of us
out here in the community
to start making cool stuff,
sharing it with one another, and
also like promoting it, right?
So one of the things
that I wanted to do
was, here on this show, I want
to start a new segment called
#BuiltWithPolymer, where I take
all the cool stuff that you're
building, and we
just show it off
so other folks can get
involved with the projects
and start using it in
their own applications.
Now, to do this, we're
going to start off
by looking at a website
called customelements.io.
I'm curious, show of
hands, how many of you
have seen
customelements.io before?
[CHEERING]
OK, I noticed that you did
not raise your hand, sir.
So for you and for
other folks like you,
I want to just walk you
through how this website works
and some of the cool
stuff that's on there.
So if you haven't seen it
before customelements.io
is pretty bad ass.
You can think of it kind of like
[? MPM ?] for web components.
It's sort of a registry.
It collects all the
things that are actually
in the Bower
registry, and then it
displays little bits
of info about it.
So you can search, and you can
find the different components
that are out there.
You go to the website,
and the first thing
that you're going to see up here
are these three main sections.
You've got the stuff
that is recently created.
It's brand new.
You've got the things that have
been recently updated, which
I always like to see.
That's supposed to be a clock.
And then you've also
got the stuff that's
the most popular
elements out there,
so the things with
the most GitHub stars.
All three of these,
very useful categories
to kind of keep tabs on.
And one of things that
I also really like
is you've got this really huge
search field up at the top.
Now, anything that
you could kind of
imagine needing a component
for you can just go type.
So I might say, oh, I want
something like a table.
So go type in
table, and now I've
got all of these cool
results popping up here
for various kinds of tables.
Another thing that
customelements.io gives you,
which is pretty awesome, is
at any point, if you want,
you can click on
someone's profile photo,
and this will show you not only
their profile page, but also
all the cool
elements that they've
produced in addition to that
one that you were looking at.
So if you think someone's making
some really high-quality stuff,
you can kind of stalk them
on a customelements.io
and see what else
they're making.
Going back to where we were
last week, a lot of folks
were asking, when is
the Polymer team going
to create a date picker in
the Material Design style?
Now, this is something
that is not currently
on the Polymer
team's to-do list.
We have a lot of elements
that we've created.
And right now what we
really want to focus on
is polishing those, closing
bugs, and making sure
that they work really well.
So at the moment,
no one is actively
working on a paper date picker,
and that, for a lot of folks,
is sort of a dilemma.
But if we go to
customelements.io,
we go to the search
field, we can just
type in date picker,
or just date, whatever.
And we can see right
here, right away,
we've got this paper
date picker that shows up
by this guy named Ben Davis.
So let's scope that out.
And looking at the Component
page on customelements.io,
we get a lot of information
really quick right here.
So I can see, for instance, how
many stars this component has.
I can see how many
people have forked it
and how many people are
watching the issues on it.
I also get the one-liner
to install this on Bower.
And what I think is maybe one
of the most important aspects
of the site, I get this
Activity panel here.
And on the Activity panel I
can see that the component
was created a year ago.
And most importantly, I can
see that it was last updated 11
days ago, which tells
me that this is still
being actively developed.
People are contributing
to this thing.
They're patching it.
They're fixing bugs.
And it's getting a
lot of love right now,
which is important
for anything that I'm
going to add to my application.
Also, we've got the list
of Bower dependencies
down here on the
right-hand side.
And again, it's really
valuable because I
want to know that, hey, is this
thing depending on the latest
version of Polymer, or at least
Polymer 1.0 and some version
above that?
I don't want an element that
is Polymer 0.5 or Polymer
0.3 or anything.
That's just not going
to work in my app.
So having all of
this information
just kind of at your
disposal every time you
go check out one
of these elements
is a huge, huge benefit
and one of the main reasons
why I think everyone should
be using customelements.io.
Now, the other
thing that it does
is it slurps in the
README for this element.
So you can see here
on the left I've
got kind of the GitHub
README that's just
been pulled into the website.
And, if you want, you can
go down here and click
on the Component
page, and this is
going to give you the classic
Polymer [? dox ?] style, right?
You've probably
seen these before,
where you can see properties
that an element supports.
You can see the methods
that it supports as well.
One of the things that I noticed
was not showing up here--
usually, up in the
top-right corner,
there's a little Demo button.
It's not showing
up on this page,
but we can just add that by
typing Demo into the URL bar.
And now, ta-da, we've got our
paper date picker showing up.
And you can see, this thing
looks pretty nice, right?
I can go click around
different dates.
Changing the month gives me
these sort of cool Material
Design ripple effects.
Close it, and then I can
click this button again
to show you how it reopens.
Lastly, one of the things
that's really important
is making sure that the
date picker is responsive.
So I go grab the
corner of my browser,
start shrinking the
page, and then, boom,
you can see that it has changed
its layout, which is really,
really good for mobile devices.
So that is just one element
that Ben Davis has produced.
If you go back to his
profile on customelements.io,
you can see that he's got
a few other items here--
a paper chip, paper time picker,
slightly different from a date
picker, paper
full-screen dialog.
A lot of really
interesting looking
stuff there that
hopefully we can show off
in a future episode.
So go find some elements
on customelements.io.
Go find the authors, stalk them.
Stalk them on GitHub.
Don't stalk them in real life.
But stalk them on GitHub
and on this website
so you can keep tabs
on all the cool stuff
that they're building.
Another thing that
happened last week
was a lot of folks were
asking, when's the Polymer team
going to create a
data table, something
that is really sophisticated
that I can filter,
where I can rearrange columns,
and do all sorts of stuff
like that?
Honestly, again, this
is one of those things
that it's such a
big undertaking,
no one on the Polymer
team currently
has it on their to-do list.
Because building a
complex data table,
you could seriously just
found a company just
on making a killer data table.
And, in fact, there's a group of
folks who have done just that.
So recently, a
team called Vaadin
released a set of
elements which they're
calling Vaadin Elements.
And very similar to the
product lines of the Polymer
team [? vends, ?] things
like iron elements and paper
elements, they put out the set.
And the Vaadin Elements are
split into two categories.
You've got these
business-oriented elements
for things like data
tables and combo boxes.
They've even created an icon
set of kind of business-y icons.
Then they've also got a
bunch of data visualization
components, Vaadin Charts.
Now, the core elements,
as they call them,
these sort of
business layout ones,
these are all free
and open source.
They are Apache licensed, so
you can use them in your project
today.
And then the Chart
Elements, those
are a commercial license,
which you have to pay for.
But since a lot of you were
asking about data tables,
I thought this would
be a really good one
to highlight because
it's available on GitHub,
and you can mess around
with it and use it today
in your project for free.
So if you go to their
website, which is
at vaadin.com/elements, you've
got this little Demo button.
And if we click that, it's going
to show us this cool Expense
Manager Application.
So I'm going to scope out
the live demo for this puppy.
And we've got a
really, really nice
looking experience here, so
kind of classic table layout--
columns and headers.
What I really like
about this is there's
these filters up at the top.
So I can just go and check
some of these values.
And, for instance, checking
in progress and reimburse,
you can see over here the
amount of items in the table
is changing as I'm
changing these values.
You can sort of
see them changing
over here as well on the left.
We can also look for
different merchants.
So I could say, oh, I
just want to see stuff
from the Taxi
merchant for instance,
and we'll just get
only the expenses
related to that category.
Likewise, we can search
by min and max values,
a lot of cool things
you can do here.
They've even got this little
floating action button
down here at the bottom.
So you can use that
to open a dialog
and actually add a new
expense to this table--
a really, really cool
example, really, really cool,
powerful element.
It's one of those
things that, again, it's
not on the Polymer team's
agenda at the moment to build,
but here you've got this awesome
community-built project which
we can all start
using in our own work.
So, yeah, that about
covers it for today.
I know I've only shown
a couple elements,
but there's actually a
big, long list of elements
that I want to start
featuring on this show.
But before I get
into that, if you
out there, if you've got some
stuff that you've built which
you would like for us to show
off-- it can be elements,
it could just be cool
projects that you've built--
please leave me a comment down
there in the YouTube comments,
or you can ping me on
Twitter at #BuiltWithPolymer.
That about covers it for today.
So, as always, thank you
so much for watching,
and I'll see you next time.
Ready?
MALE SPEAKER: 43 take
two, [INAUDIBLE].
ROB DODSON: Hey there,
Polycasters, Rob here.
[BLEEP] Kind of
pause for a second.
Oh, Twitter notifications.